README.md, before:

# Image Generation MCP Server

An MCP (Model Context Protocol) server for image generation and editing using multiple providers (Gemini, Replicate, Hugging Face).

## Installation

### Option 1: Global Installation via npm

```bash
npm install -g image-generation-mcp-server
```

### Option 2: Local Installation

```bash
npm install image-generation-mcp-server
```

## Configuration

You can configure the provider through environment variables. The server will automatically select the provider based on configuration or API key availability.

### Supported Providers

#### 1. Google Gemini (Default)
- **Model**: `gemini-3-pro-image-preview`
- **Environment Variable**: `GEMINI_API_KEY`
- **Cost**: Free (currently in preview)

#### 2. Replicate
- **Generation**: `sdxl-lightning` (Fast and low cost)
- **Editing**: `instruct-pix2pix`
- **Environment Variable**: `REPLICATE_API_TOKEN`
- **Explicit Configuration**: `IMAGE_GENERATION_PROVIDER=replicate`

#### 3. Hugging Face
- **Generation**: `stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0`
- **Editing**: *Not supported in current version*
- **Environment Variable**: `HUGGING_FACE_TOKEN`
- **Explicit Configuration**: `IMAGE_GENERATION_PROVIDER=huggingface`

### `.env` Example

```bash
# Gemini
GEMINI_API_KEY=your-gemini-api-key

# Replicate
REPLICATE_API_TOKEN=your-replicate-api-token

# Hugging Face
HUGGING_FACE_TOKEN=your-hugging-face-token

# Force provider selection (optional)
IMAGE_GENERATION_PROVIDER=replicate
```

## MCP Client Configuration

### Claude Desktop / Amp

Add the following to your configuration file (e.g., `claude_desktop_config.json`):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "image-generation": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "image-generation-mcp-server"],
      "env": {
        "GEMINI_API_KEY": "your-gemini-api-key",
        "REPLICATE_API_TOKEN": "optional-replicate-token",
        "HUGGING_FACE_TOKEN": "optional-hf-token"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Manual Execution (Testing)

To run the server manually:

```bash
npx -y image-generation-mcp-server
```

### Option 2: Using Node directly

```bash
node path/to/mcp-server.js
```

#### Option 3: Using global installation

If installed globally with `npm install -g image-generation-mcp-server`:

```bash
image-generation-mcp-server
```

**Environment Variables**:
Make sure to pass the required environment variables (`GEMINI_API_KEY`, `REPLICATE_API_TOKEN`, `HUGGING_FACE_TOKEN`) in your client configuration.

## Available Tools

### `generate_image_from_text`
Generates a new image from a text description.

**Parameters:**
- `prompt`: Detailed description of the image.
- `output_path` (optional): Path where the generated image will be saved.

### `edit_image`
Edits an existing image based on instructions.

**Parameters:**
- `image_path`: Path to the original image.
- `prompt`: Editing instructions.
- `output_path` (optional): Path where the result will be saved.

## Requirements

- Node.js 18+
- API key from at least one of the supported providers.

Commit message:

feat: upgrade to @google/genai, support Gemini 3 Pro image params, dynamic tool schema

README.md, after:

# Image Generation MCP Server

An MCP (Model Context Protocol) server for image generation and editing using multiple providers (Gemini, Replicate, Hugging Face).

## Installation

### Option 1: Global Installation via npm

```bash
npm install -g image-generation-mcp-server
```

### Option 2: Local Installation

```bash
npm install image-generation-mcp-server
```

## Configuration

You can configure the provider through environment variables. The server will automatically select the provider based on configuration or API key availability.

### Supported Providers

#### 1. Google Gemini (Default)
- **Model**: `gemini-3-pro-image-preview`
- **Environment Variable**: `GEMINI_API_KEY`
- **Cost**: Free (currently in preview)

#### 2. Replicate
- **Generation**: `sdxl-lightning` (Fast and low cost)
- **Editing**: `instruct-pix2pix`
- **Environment Variable**: `REPLICATE_API_TOKEN`
- **Explicit Configuration**: `IMAGE_GENERATION_PROVIDER=replicate`

#### 3. Hugging Face
- **Generation**: `stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0`
- **Editing**: *Not supported in current version*
- **Environment Variable**: `HUGGING_FACE_TOKEN`
- **Explicit Configuration**: `IMAGE_GENERATION_PROVIDER=huggingface`

### `.env` Example

```bash
# Gemini
GEMINI_API_KEY=your-gemini-api-key

# Replicate
REPLICATE_API_TOKEN=your-replicate-api-token

# Hugging Face
HUGGING_FACE_TOKEN=your-hugging-face-token

# Force provider selection (optional)
IMAGE_GENERATION_PROVIDER=replicate
```

## MCP Client Configuration

### Claude Desktop / Amp

Add the following to your configuration file (e.g., `claude_desktop_config.json`):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "image-generation": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "image-generation-mcp-server"],
      "env": {
        "GEMINI_API_KEY": "your-gemini-api-key",
        "REPLICATE_API_TOKEN": "optional-replicate-token",
        "HUGGING_FACE_TOKEN": "optional-hf-token"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Manual Execution (Testing)

To run the server manually:

```bash
npx -y image-generation-mcp-server
```

### Option 2: Using Node directly

```bash
node path/to/mcp-server.js
```

#### Option 3: Using global installation

If installed globally with `npm install -g image-generation-mcp-server`:

```bash
image-generation-mcp-server
```

**Environment Variables**:
Make sure to pass the required environment variables (`GEMINI_API_KEY`, `REPLICATE_API_TOKEN`, `HUGGING_FACE_TOKEN`) in your client configuration.

## Available Tools

The parameters available for each tool depend on the configured provider.

### `generate_image_from_text`
Generates a new image from a text description.

**Base Parameters:**
- `prompt`: Detailed description of the image.
- `output_path` (optional): Path where the generated image will be saved.

**Gemini Provider Extra Parameters:**
When using Google Gemini, these additional parameters are available:
- `aspectRatio`: Aspect ratio of the image. Supported values: `1:1` (default), `3:2`, `2:3`, `3:4`, `4:3`, `4:5`, `5:4`, `9:16`, `16:9`, `21:9`.
- `resolution`: Resolution/Size of the image. Maps to Gemini's `imageSize`. Supported values: `1K` (default), `2K`, `4K`.
- `numberOfImages`: Number of images to generate (candidate count).

**Note on Transparency:**
Gemini 3 Pro currently does not support generating images with transparent backgrounds (alpha channel). Images will be generated with a solid background.

### `edit_image`
Edits an existing image based on instructions.

**Base Parameters:**
- `image_path`: Path to the original image.
- `prompt`: Editing instructions.
- `output_path` (optional): Path where the result will be saved.

**Gemini Provider Extra Parameters:**
- `aspectRatio`, `resolution`, `numberOfImages` (see above).

## Requirements

- Node.js 18+
- API key from at least one of the supported providers.
